image-based lighting or IBL for short is
one of the various technologies that
we've included with icon for IPL can
create realistic environmental light
without overly taxing your project or
resources in this tutorial you will
learn the basics of IPL then how ivl
works image based lighting is basically
taking one image and then bending that
image into a shape of a sphere that
wraps around your seat it then generates
light just like the image and directs
that light inward towards the center of
that sphere and at the center of that
sphere is the scene way of grid in
iphone 4 so let's begin with this scene
of my horse before using IBL first
adjust the lighting we don't need too
much of the other lighting such as
directional light spotlight point light
nor ambient light by default every
project has two lights directional light
and ambien so let's turn em biet to
black
then change directional light to dark
gray we wish to keep some shadow
contrast so we'll leave this directional
light on but just with a darker color
okay so we are ready to add in some IBL
so let's go to stage then to atmosphere
then on the modify panel let's scroll
down to the image based lighting
settings to turn on IBL simply click on
this check box automatically there is
already one IBL image already loaded for
us remember IBL is basically taking one
texture map and wrapping it around your
scene in generating light inward towards
your scene because of that we can simply
change this image and create new IBL and
thus change the filling of the entire
project on the templates we can choose
between several different types of IBL
and sky accommodations let me choose IBL
sunny and notice that the sky map change
and that the IVL map changed as well
looks like a bright sunny day
now if we change to Blizzard notice the
IBL map changed and so did the sky and
the weather looks much colder and the
lighting helps create that feeling we
can also choose IBL horror and see how
the IBL map changed and the entire
feeling of the project change based on
the IBL map I chose lighting can be that
effective let's switch to IBL heaven and
I want to show you a few ways we can
enhance our ivl effects we can add in
rotation keys to our IBL maps thus
creating motion just move along the
scrub line then add in a rotation key
notice when i open the timeline that a
keyframe has been created so when we
play back from this keyframe to this
keyframe you'll notice that the light
will move across the force
this project is a good example of
rotating ivl maps in this project
nothing is moving except the IBL map of
those light spots but you can see how
this gives a feeling of moving through
this cool tunnel you can also change
color and color balance for example I
can change the colors to skew the color
in one direction or another
if you didn't like the changes you made
you can press reset and the colors will
change back to the previously safe
setting also you can change the contrast
and brightness for your IBL maps here
feel free to adjust the settings to
create a darker or even brighter setting
for whichever IBL map you are using if
you wish to make your own I be on map
there are a few different ways the first
is just resize your texture map you are
using for your sky see the advanced IBL
tutorial to learn how to do that method
or you can create simple texture with
Photoshop or any other image processing
software I recommend using a texture
size of 512 by 512 or 1024 x 1024
anything less or greater in size will
detract from the IBL effect I will make
a red and blue dot later you'll see what
I plan to do with my image based
lighting but feel free to create any
kind of texture for your ivl lighting
later when I add in this IBL that I
created in Photoshop i can add in some
rotation and voila I made a crime scene
setting complete with flashing police
lights